Reorganize InfluxDB Clustered installation documentation (#5636)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/install/customize-cluster/scale.md

---
title: Customize your cluster scale
seotitle: Customize the scale of your InfluxDB cluster
description: >
  Customize the scale of your cluster to best suit your workload.
menu:
  influxdb_clustered:
    name: Customize cluster scale
    parent: Customize your cluster
weight: 201
related:
  - /influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/
---

InfluxDB Clustered lets you scale each component in your cluster individually,
so you can customize your cluster's scale to address the specific the specific
needs of your workload.
For example, if you have a heavy write workload, but not a heavy query workload,
you can scale your Router and Ingester both [vertically](/influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/#vertical-scaling)
and [horizontally](/influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/#horizontal-scaling)
to increase your write throughput and latency.

> ## Default scale settings

Reviewer: Should we mention the garbage collector and catalog service here as well?

We are happy to work with you to identify appropriate scale settings based on
your anticipated workload.

## Customize scale settings

Your `AppInstance` resource controls the scale of components in your InfluxDB
cluster. You can edit `AppInstance` resource directly or, if using the
[InfluxDB Clustered Helm chart](https://github.com/influxdata/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/influxdb3-clustered)
to manage your deployment, you can edit resource settings in your `values.yaml`.

{{% note %}}
_For specific scaling recommendations and guidelines, see
[Scale your cluster](/influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/)._
{{% /note %}}

With Kubernetes, you can define both the minimum resources to request for each
component and resource limits to apply to each component.

{{< tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% tabs "medium" %}}
[AppInstance](#)
[Helm](#)
{{% /tabs %}}

{{% tab-content %}}

<!----------------------------- BEGIN APPINSTANCE ----------------------------->

**To use custom scale settings for your InfluxDB cluster**, edit values for the
following fields in your `myinfluxdb.yml`.
If omitted, your cluster uses the default scale settings.

> - `spec.package.spec.resources`

Reviewer: I realize you're mostly just reorganizing existing documents, but it might be worth mentioning the `garbage-collector` as a component with scalable resources here.

Author: Thanks @waynr. I'll add it. The GC isn't included in the [`example-customer.yml`](https://github.com/influxdata/k8s-idpe/blob/a98ab88f08f2ea911960ab2384b14cac5f15913a/env/clustered/example-customer.yml#L255-L289) which is why I didn't include it here.

- Is the key `garbage-collector` or `garbage_collector`?
- I know at one point it did honor the `replicas` option, but it breaks when adding replicas. I'll keep this one out of the examples, but did we remove support or limit multiple replicas for the GC?

and [horizontally](/influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/#horizontal-scaling)
to increase your write throughput and latency.

## Default scale settings

- **1 router**:
  Additional routers increase your cluster's ability to handle concurrent write
  requests.
- **3 ingesters**:
  Ensures redundancy on the write path.
- **1 querier**:
  The optimal number of queriers depends on the number of concurrent queries you
  are likely to have and how long they take to execute.
- **1 compactor**:
  While you can have multiple compactors, it is more efficient to scale the
  compactor vertically (assign more CPU and memory) rather than horizontally
  (increase the number of compactors).
- **1 garbage collector**:
  The garbage collector is a light-weight process that only needs to be scaled
  vertically when you observe high resource usage by the garbage collector.
  _The garbage collector cannot be scaled horizontally._

The default values provide a good starting point for testing.
Once you have your cluster up and running and are looking for scaling
recommendations for your anticipated workload, please

> [contact the InfluxData Support team](https://support.influxdata.com).
> We are happy to work with you to identify appropriate scale settings based on
> your anticipated workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[contact the InfluxData Support team](https://support.influxdata.com) to help you
identify appropriate scale settings based on
your anticipated workload.
```

## Customize scale settings

Your `AppInstance` resource controls the scale of components in your InfluxDB

> cluster. You can edit `AppInstance` resource directly or, if using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cluster. You can edit the `AppInstance` resource directly or, if using the
```

[InfluxDB Clustered Helm chart](https://github.com/influxdata/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/influxdb3-clustered)
to manage your deployment, you can edit resource settings in your `values.yaml`.

{{% note %}}
_For specific scaling recommendations and guidelines, see
[Scale your cluster](/influxdb/clustered/admin/scale-cluster/)._
{{% /note %}}

> With Kubernetes, you can define both the minimum resources to request for each
> component and resource limits to apply to each component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Kubernetes, you can define the minimum resources and the resource limits for each component.
```
